docs/content/guides/upgrade-and-migration/versioning-policy.md, before:

---
id: fwrhn9ys
title: Versioning policy
metaTitle: Versioning policy - JavaScript Data Grid | Handsontable
description: Handsontable follows the principles of Semantic Versioning (SemVer). Each version is numbered in the X.Y.Z (Major.Minor.Patch) format.
permalink: /versioning-policy
canonicalUrl: /versioning-policy
react:
  id: avrihx7w
  metaTitle: Versioning policy - React Data Grid | Handsontable
searchCategory: Guides
---

# Versioning policy

Handsontable follows the principles of [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/) (SemVer).

[[toc]]

## Overview

We use the version format of X.Y.Z (Major.Minor.Patch), incrementing them when a certain type of change occurs to the code.

The following table outlines which number would change when a Major, Minor, or Patch release occurs:

| Type  | Version number | Description                                                                                                                               |
| ----- | -------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Major | X (X.y.z)      | Any backward-incompatible changes are introduced to the public API.                                                                       |
| Minor | Y (x.Y.z)      | New backward-compatible functionality is introduced to the public API, or if any public API functionality is marked as deprecated.        |
| Patch | Z (x.y.Z)      | Backward-compatible bug fixes are introduced. We define a bug fix as an internal change that fixes an incorrect behavior of Handsontable. |

::: only-for javascript
## Versioning of framework variants

Up to Handsontable 8.3.2, each framework variant of Handsontable was versioned separately:
- [Vanilla JavaScript](@/guides/getting-started/introduction.md)
- [React wrapper](@/react/guides/getting-started/introduction.md)
- [Angular wrapper](@/guides/integrate-with-angular/angular-installation.md)
- [Vue 2 wrapper](@/guides/integrate-with-vue/vue-installation.md)
- [Vue 3 wrapper](@/guides/integrate-with-vue3/vue3-installation.md)

Starting with version 8.4.0 (released in May 2021), all framework variants of Handsontable have the same version number.
:::

::: only-for react
## Versioning of framework variants

Up to Handsontable 8.3.2, the JavaScript variant and the React variant of Handsontable were versioned separately:
- [Vanilla JavaScript](@/javascript/guides/getting-started/introduction.md)
- [React wrapper](@/guides/getting-started/introduction.md)

Starting with version 8.4.0 (released in May 2021), both the JavaScript variant and the React variant of Handsontable have the same version number.
:::

Commit message:

add information about development releases (https://github.com/handsontable/dev-handsontable/issues/979)
remove ambiguity about:
- NPM run scripts
- stable vs development releases

docs/content/guides/upgrade-and-migration/versioning-policy.md, after:

---
id: fwrhn9ys
title: Versioning policy
metaTitle: Versioning policy - JavaScript Data Grid | Handsontable
description: Handsontable follows the principles of Semantic Versioning (SemVer). Each version is numbered in the X.Y.Z (Major.Minor.Patch) format.
permalink: /versioning-policy
canonicalUrl: /versioning-policy
react:
  id: avrihx7w
  metaTitle: Versioning policy - React Data Grid | Handsontable
searchCategory: Guides
---

# Versioning policy

Handsontable follows the principles of [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/) (SemVer).

[[toc]]

## Stable releases

We use the version format of X.Y.Z (Major.Minor.Patch), incrementing them when a certain type of change occurs to the code.

The following table outlines which number would change when a Major, Minor, or Patch release occurs:

| Type  | Version number | Description                                                                                                                               |
| ----- | -------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Major | X (X.y.z)      | Any backward-incompatible changes are introduced to the public API.                                                                       |
| Minor | Y (x.Y.z)      | New backward-compatible functionality is introduced to the public API, or if any public API functionality is marked as deprecated.        |
| Patch | Z (x.y.Z)      | Backward-compatible bug fixes are introduced. We define a bug fix as an internal change that fixes an incorrect behavior of Handsontable. |

::: only-for javascript
## Versioning of framework variants

Up to Handsontable 8.3.2, each framework variant of Handsontable was versioned separately:
- [Vanilla JavaScript](@/guides/getting-started/introduction.md)
- [React wrapper](@/react/guides/getting-started/introduction.md)
- [Angular wrapper](@/guides/integrate-with-angular/angular-installation.md)
- [Vue 2 wrapper](@/guides/integrate-with-vue/vue-installation.md)
- [Vue 3 wrapper](@/guides/integrate-with-vue3/vue3-installation.md)

Starting with version 8.4.0 (released in May 2021), all framework variants of Handsontable have the same version number.
:::

::: only-for react
## Versioning of framework variants

Up to Handsontable 8.3.2, the JavaScript variant and the React variant of Handsontable were versioned separately:
- [Vanilla JavaScript](@/javascript/guides/getting-started/introduction.md)
- [React wrapper](@/guides/getting-started/introduction.md)

Starting with version 8.4.0 (released in May 2021), both the JavaScript variant and the React variant of Handsontable have the same version number.
:::

## Development releases

As part of the development process, we publish automated development releases to npm. Such releases might be used to preview upcoming changes, but they are not considered stable or supported. The behavior might change before a stable release.

The version number of the development releases follows the [SemVer](https://semver.org/) guidelines for pre-release versions. It appears in the following format: `Major.Minor.Patch-Label-Commit-Date`, where:

- `Major.Minor.Patch` - Equals the anticipated stable release number (e.g., `12.3.0`) when the build is published from the release branch shortly before a stable release. Equals `0.0.0` for builds published from any branch during the regular development cycle. 
- `Label` - The category of the development release. Currently, only `next` is used.
- `Commit` - A short Git SHA that identifies the code commit.
- `Date` - The build date.

An example of a development release version number: `0.0.0-next-cf775b4-20221222`.
